Real-Time Social Listening for Patient Experience & Safety Signals

The Problem 

Healthcare insights are increasingly available through patient-generated data on social media, forums, and online platforms. These sources provide early signals of adverse events, treatment dissatisfaction, and quality-of-life impacts that are often not captured in traditional systems. 

Historically, though, these insights have been difficult to acquire due to a lack of systems that effectively listen to or index the right sources on the internet. 

What to Build

Build a solution that identifies mentions or references made to a set of keywords, from multiple sources, at varying degrees of intervals, and can run analysis on the data acquired. Core Requirements:

There are two parts to this problem 

Part 1: Build a generic engine that can then be leveraged to 

Build Social monitoring projects – a project would be where all the information related to a use case.
Each project would allow configuration of keywords that need to be monitored, eg: drugs, symptoms, and conditions.
Additionally, the user can also configure the sources (X, Reddit, communities, forums) where these keywords need to be monitored.
Each source will have a crawler/data acquisition engine that acquires and extracts the data for further processing.
Each source defined in a project should also allow for the configuration of latency metrics
Real-time,
Daily
Weekly
A UI to set up and configure these projects
New engine types for sources (data sources) can also be set up or configured via this admin tool. 
Part 2: Analysis 

Identify entities, extract entities, and extract individual sentiment from the individual content pieces acquired as part of the feed.
Extract overall sentiment and trending from a source (for a defined period of time)
Highlight any safety issues or any adverse issues reported
Show trending of detected signals in a timeline view.
Incorporate explainability, traceability, and confidence scores when building these models.
Flag and PII or PHI that may have been accidentally reported in the acquired data.
Scope

In  
Support multiple sources/engines for acquiring data
Processing pipelines
Storage of acquired data/signals
Ability to run models, reporting, and analysis against the data acquired.
Dashboard, Administration, and reporting UI.
Major sources: X, Reddit, Quora, online communities that fit a forum structure.
Out
Data retention
Cost projections 
Tech Stack

Open to the choices made by the team. Ideally lean towards python.
Modularity, extensibility and configurability will be key
Evaluation Criteria

Ideas on building engines to acquire data (40%)
Approaches for data acquisition from multiple sources
Extensibility (ease of adding new websites for scraping/searching keywords)
Reliability of sourcing data
Execution on above ideas (30%)
Clarity of design
Architecture
Working demo
Presentation and UX (15%)
Overall presentation, UX, and dashboard design
How well key differentiators are highlighted compared to existing solutions
Uniqueness (15%)
Innovative application of agentic and AI capabilities, especially for onboarding new data sources/websites